debarcer
========

Description
-----------

Debarcer (De-Barcoding and Error Correction) is a package for working with next-gen
sequencing data that contains molecular barcodes.

As it stands, it supports targeted sequencing libraries generated by SimSenSeq, a
method of creating multiplexed barcoded sequencing libraries using PCR.


Setting up Debarcer
-------------------

1) Download a debarcer release, i.e.:

    wget https://github.com/oicr-gsi/debarcer/archive/v0.3.1.tar.gz

2) Unpack into a convenient directory, which will become the `$BHOME`
   enviroment variable.

3) Add `$BHOME` to your PATH. 

   If you're in an environment that uses
   modules, you can install the appropriate module file from the
   `$BHOME/utils/modulefiles` directory and run

     module load debarcer/[version number]

   to adjust your environment prior to running the pipeline.


Dependencies
------------

- samtools v0.1.19 or higher
- bwa v0.7.12 or higher
- [Bio-SamTools-1.41](http://search.cpan.org/~lds/Bio-SamTools-1.41/)
  - Bio-SamTools requires BioPerl
- R v2.11.0 or higher

The pipeline needs to be run on a maching with at least 16GB memory.
It may run with less but this hasn't been tested extensively.

Debarcer is currently run at OICR using the following configuration:
- perl 5.24.0
- BioPerl 1.6.923
- R 3.3.0
- Bio-SamTools-1.43
- bwa 0.7.12
- OGS queue scheduling system


Running Debarcer
----------------

Once $BHOME is set in your path, you can view debarcer usage like so:

	runDebarcer.sh -u
  
To run an analysis, go to a directory with a barcoded fastq file
and run

	runDebarcer.sh -r -f <infile.fastq.gz> -n <SampleName>

You can use the Sample_Test.R1.fastq.gz file in the $BHOME/test_toole
directory to try out the pipeline.

If you'd like to regenerate only the graphics in one of the analysis
directories, run

	runDebarcer.sh -g -f <infile.fastq.gz> -n <SampleName>

  
Acknowledgements
----------------

Levenshtein C code is a modified version of source available here: http://ideone.com/OL38zi


Citations
---------

Debarcer: Krzyzanowski et al. 2016. (In preparation)

SimSenSeq: Stahlberg, Krzyzanowski, Jackson, Egyud, Stein, Godfrey. 
*"Simple, multiplexed, PCR-based barcoding of DNA enables sensitive 
mutation detection in liquid biopsies using sequencing"*. 
Nucleic Acids Research, 2016. [link](http://nar.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2016/04/07/nar.gkw224.abstract)


Changes
-------
Feb 10, 2016: Exported svn rev389 and imported it into the 'debarcer' repo on github.
